okay you were lucky to grab a brand new
512 gigabyte iphone
yay or you just simply updated the old
one to the new ios 14.
either way you'll get a bunch of new
possibilities with widgets
now you can place them right on the home
screen and they also vary in size
small medium large you name it
you don't need to waste time on creating
multiple folders for your apps now that
you've got an
app library it automatically categorizes
all the apps you use
the recently added category will contain
those apps you've recently downloaded
plus it's going to display recently
launched app clips
jiggle mode has changed too to launch it
on ios 14
you gotta press your finger against the
empty field and
voila all the app icons are jiggling
in this mode you can delete an app or
move it into the library by just
clicking the minus button
to exit the jiggle mode tap your finger
against the empty space
or click done in the upper right corner
this mode can also help you hide the
pages you don't really use
go to the jiggle mode press the bar with
dots
one dot equals one page and you'll see
the screen with all the pages displayed
separately
remove the ticks from the pages you want
to hide hit done
and there you go to get any of those
pages back
hit the bar again and put the tick to
whatever page you need now you can set
the default app for your browser or mail
go to settings and scroll down until you
see the app you want to be your default
internet or mail app
when you tap the settings you'll see the
default browser app section
tap it and choose the one you want from
the list
ios 14 has one more cool feature that
lets you hide your recently deleted
photos folder
go to settings and choose the photos
section
scroll down until you see the hidden
album section
if you activate the hidden album button
anyone with access to your phone
will be able to see them a fun yet super
important new feature
is hand washing if you have an apple
watch it'll detect you washing your
hands
and make sure you do that for at least
20 seconds you can also get
hand washing reminders it'll send you a
notification
if you don't wash your hands within a
few minutes of returning home
imessages got updated too now you can
pin up to nine message threads to keep
the most frequently used contacts
at the top of the list all the time you
can also mention people in conversations
to direct a message to some particular
member in the group
you can also filter unknown senders
notify me section in the messages allows
you to get notifications and messages
whenever you're mentioned even if you
muted the conversation
it's great if most of your chats are
muted you won't miss
important messages but you won't have to
filter through tons of stuff you don't
need
as for some other new features in
imessages memoji's changed as well
11 new hairstyles and 19 new headwear
styles were added to customize your
memoji
you can send hugs and blush with new
stickers
oops bad news for interpreters and
translators
conversation mode can split the screen
into two parts
detecting the language that's being
spoken on one side of the screen
and translating it on the other side
eleven languages are supported in total
and yeah it works perfectly offline so
your conversations
are sure to stay completely private
some updates were made for the weather
app too now we've got a minute-by-minute
forecast
about how intense the rain or snow will
be over the coming hour
in the u.s also in the u.s europe
japan canada and australia there will be
display alerts for all the severe
weather conditions such as tornadoes
storms and floods the video quality for
facetime calls improved
and now it's up to 1080p resolution
sorry
only for iphone 10 or newer the best
feature
is eye contact now the phone adjusts the
video to the position of your eyes
to make video calls even more natural
especially when you're looking at the
screen
and not at the camera in ios 14
you can assign reminders to the people
you share various lists with
another feature for reminders is smart
suggestion
it lets you add dates times and places
with a single tap
apple cash has a family mode now so you
can add up to five family members under
18.
whenever you want to share some money
with some of your relatives you can do
that through messages
you'll also get all the purchase and
person-to-person
payment notifications a lot has been
done to the camera
you'll probably never notice it but now
it takes even less time to take a shot
thanks to the improved shot to shot
performance night mode is updated too
to enhance the night photos experience
another cool feature for selfies
the front camera is now mirrored so any
selfie of yours will match the shot the
front camera can make
all the iphones have an inbuilt qr
reader no matter if it's a good old
retro
iphone 5 or a brand new iphone 12
the improved qr reader for ios 14 can
scan
almost any code even if it's tiny or
wrapped around some object
as for music you can discover your
favorite tracks and autoplay modes going
to look for some similar songs you might
like
there are also a bunch of new filters to
search through your library faster than
ever
spatial audio is basically the 3d sound
that gives you a really immersive
experience
to enable this feature go to the
bluetooth section
tap the i next to your airpods yeah it
works only together with them
and hit the spatial audio button also
check the accessibility section you need
to hit the follow iphone button to make
sure it all works
let's say you don't want tik tok to know
exactly where you are
so you open the tick tock section and of
course you can turn off the location
access
but ios 14 has another feature if you
hit the precise location button off
tick tock will only get your approximate
location not the precise address
there are now automatic suggestions for
the home app
also it can now adjust the color
temperature throughout the day
another cool feature is face recognition
it can even recognize someone who's at
your doorbell
if you have this person and people saved
in photos
ios 14 takes care of your sleep with its
new sleep and wind down modes
in the clock you'll get a lot of new
things such as a sleep schedule
first make sure your sleep schedule is
on
edit the active days you can set the
sleep goal
and then tap the wind down section add
the apps you need
to the wind down shortcut when your
phone is in sleep mode
you can access them from the blocked
screen
the new setting for wi-fi is called a
private address
if you use it it can reduce tracking of
your iphone across different wi-fi
networks
you can easily improve battery life now
first
you can limit your widget usage try not
to add too many widgets
and limit the use of those that require
a lot of data to keep the info up to
date
also you can automate the low power mode
at a certain battery percentage
go to automation hit the plus button and
create a new
automation setting there are tons of
updates for the keyboard and various
languages
but you'll love this feature no matter
what language you speak
now you can search for the right emoji
with a word or phrase
alright this one is for the laziest
iphone users
now you can send a voice message with
the help of siri
all you need to do is say hey siri send
a voice message to jane smith
siri starts recording then it stops when
you're done and you get the preview
now you just have to tap the send button